Git is software that is used by programmers to track changes in file sets. This tool is used between programmers for collaborative projects, and helps to keep track of all work, new and old, on a software project. Git saves multiple versions of projects, allowing for previous versions to be called upon if ever needed. Git also allows programmers to merge all their work into one centralized space.  Git was developed in 2005 as an open source project by Linus Torvalds, the creator of the Linux operating system. Git is sometimes referred to as a Distributed Source Control System. Git is not to be confused with Github, a social media platform for collaborative projects between programmers using the Git software. Github utilizes Git to send and receive data, but is not the same thing as git itself. Github is simply a more visual version of the already existing git program. 

Using the terminal on your computer is another way of navigating a computer and it's processes--only more directly. In some instances, people might prefer to use the terminal because they find it easier to move through folders with written commands, rather than opening applications and doing it that way. While one person might find it easier to open the folder window and have a visual reference for how to create a new folder and move around files, a person who is familiar with how to use the terminal might find it faster to simply type a command that generates a new folder and move different documents and folders around that way. The terminal can communicate and read information from multiple sources in your computer, from your photos and files, to a GitHub repo you've created.  

 Some of the benefits of version control software, are its are that branching and merging work can happen quickly, software developers will have the ability to work offline, and copies of the software will exist for multiple people to have access to across devices. Git, one example of a version control software, was created for the Linux operating system, but was swiftly adapted between all systems due to it's usefulness. Software repositories like git save a record of all changes made to the program, making it extremely useful for developing software. Version control software can be an easy way to save work, and collaberate with other developers on a project.   